---
title: Over to KDE4.2
author: dirk
layout: post
permalink: /2009/02/14/over-to-kde4-2/
blogger_blog:
  - disfunksioneel.blogspot.com
blogger_author:
  - Dirk Uys
blogger_permalink:
  - /2009/02/kde42.html
categories:
  - desktop
  - kde
  - linux
---
After some initial <span>struggles</span> ([<span>gentoo</span>-user mailing list][1]) I have managed to update to <span>KDE</span>4.2.

I will not say that this applies to everyone, nor will I make a sweeping statement like &#8220;<span>KDE</span> is back&#8221;, but, <span>KDE</span> is back on my desktop and I&#8217;m <span>reasonably</span> happy with it!

I&#8217;m using a <span>reasonably</span> dated machine, <span>AMD</span> <span>Athlon</span> <span>XP</span> 2500, <span>NVidia</span> <span>GeForce</span> <span>FX</span> 5200 128MB and 640MB <span>DDR</span>333. Not the greatest machine, but after disabling all desktop effects, things are running quite smooth.

I decided to give the new Kickoff menu a go since KDE4.1.3. Although it&#8217;s not what I am used to, it is still not something that will completely deter me from using <span>KDE</span>4. After all, if I really can&#8217;t adapt, I can always go back to the classic style menu.

There is however a few things that I think could be improved. The first thing is adding shortcuts to the bottom panel. I always keep a few icons in my panel &#8211; <span>konsole</span>, the home folder and <span>firefox</span> at least. When I wish to add an icon to the panel , the widgets need to be unlocked. I feel that even when the widgets are locked, you should still be able to add icons to the panel. Having different context menus depending on the locked status of the widgets are a big confusing. For me the main advantage of locking the widgets is the absence of that configuration bar next to desktop applets. But, this is also no show stopper, I only need to add <span>shortcuts</span> for my favourite applications once.

Another thing didn&#8217;t work that great was <span>Okular</span>. I opened [&#8220;Learning <span>CMake</span>&#8220;][2], but it was painfully slow. I haven&#8217;t had time to test it with another <span>PDF</span> reader like <span>xpdf</span> or <span>kpdf</span>, so maybe it&#8217;s just the <span>PDF</span> document?

But overall I&#8217;m impressed with <span>KDE</span>4.2. From now on this will most <span>definitely</span> be my default desktop!

 [1]: http://www.gossamer-threads.com/lists/gentoo/user/181090
 [2]: http://www.elpauer.org/stuff/learning_cmake.pdf